docs/content/installation/from-package.en-us.md, before:

---
date: "2016-12-01T16:00:00+02:00"
title: "Installation from package"
slug: "install-from-package"
sidebar_position: 20
toc: false
draft: false
aliases:
  - /en-us/install-from-package
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "installation"
    name: "From package"
    sidebar_position: 20
    identifier: "install-from-package"
---

# Official packages

## macOS

Currently, the only supported method of installation on MacOS is [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/).
Following the [deployment from binary](installation/from-binary.md) guide may work,
but is not supported. To install Gitea via `brew`:

```
brew install gitea
```

# Unofficial packages

## Alpine Linux

Alpine Linux has [Gitea](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages?name=gitea&branch=edge) in its community repository which follows the latest stable version.

```sh
apk add gitea
```

## Arch Linux

The rolling release distribution has [Gitea](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/gitea/) in their official extra repository and package updates are provided with new Gitea releases.

```sh
pacman -S gitea
```

## Arch Linux ARM

Arch Linux ARM provides packages for [aarch64](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/aarch64/gitea), [armv7h](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/armv7h/gitea) and [armv6h](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/armv6h/gitea).

```sh
pacman -S gitea
```

## Gentoo Linux

The rolling release distribution has [Gitea](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/www-apps/gitea) in their official community repository and package updates are provided with new Gitea releases.

```sh
emerge gitea -va
```

## Canonical Snap

There is a [Gitea Snap](https://snapcraft.io/gitea) package which follows the latest stable version.

```sh
snap install gitea
```

## SUSE and openSUSE

OpenSUSE build service provides packages for [openSUSE and SLE](https://software.opensuse.org/download/package?package=gitea&project=devel%3Atools%3Ascm)
in the Development Software Configuration Management Repository

## Windows

There is a [Gitea](https://chocolatey.org/packages/gitea) package for Windows by [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).

```sh
choco install gitea
```

Or follow the [deployment from binary](installation/from-binary.md) guide.

## FreeBSD

A FreeBSD port `www/gitea` is available. To install the pre-built binary package:

```
pkg install gitea
```

For the most up to date version, or to build the port with custom options,
[install it from the port](https://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/ports-using.html):

```
su -
cd /usr/ports/www/gitea
make install clean
```

The port uses the standard FreeBSD file system layout: config files are in `/usr/local/etc/gitea`,
bundled templates, options, plugins and themes are in `/usr/local/share/gitea`, and a start script
is in `/usr/local/etc/rc.d/gitea`.

To enable Gitea to run as a service, run `sysrc gitea_enable=YES` and start it with `service gitea start`.

## Others

Various other third-party packages of Gitea exist.
To see a curated list, head over to [awesome-gitea](https://gitea.com/gitea/awesome-gitea/src/branch/master/README.md#user-content-packages).

Do you know of an existing package that isn't on the list? Send in a PR to get it added!

Commit message:

Fix `Installation from package` doc (#27459)
Fix the title size and add notes to the Gitea snap package.
Related issue #27424, #27423, #27422, #27420

docs/content/installation/from-package.en-us.md, after:

---
date: "2016-12-01T16:00:00+02:00"
title: "Installation from package"
slug: "install-from-package"
sidebar_position: 20
toc: false
draft: false
aliases:
  - /en-us/install-from-package
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "installation"
    name: "From package"
    sidebar_position: 20
    identifier: "install-from-package"
---

# Installation from Package

## Official packages

### macOS

Currently, the only supported method of installation on MacOS is [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/).
Following the [deployment from binary](installation/from-binary.md) guide may work,
but is not supported. To install Gitea via `brew`:

```
brew install gitea
```

## Unofficial packages

### Alpine Linux

Alpine Linux has [Gitea](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages?name=gitea&branch=edge) in its community repository which follows the latest stable version.

```sh
apk add gitea
```

### Arch Linux

The rolling release distribution has [Gitea](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/gitea/) in their official extra repository and package updates are provided with new Gitea releases.

```sh
pacman -S gitea
```

### Arch Linux ARM

Arch Linux ARM provides packages for [aarch64](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/aarch64/gitea), [armv7h](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/armv7h/gitea) and [armv6h](https://archlinuxarm.org/packages/armv6h/gitea).

```sh
pacman -S gitea
```

### Gentoo Linux

The rolling release distribution has [Gitea](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/www-apps/gitea) in their official community repository and package updates are provided with new Gitea releases.

```sh
emerge gitea -va
```

### Canonical Snap

There is a [Gitea Snap](https://snapcraft.io/gitea) package which follows the latest stable version.
*Note: The Gitea snap package is [strictly confined](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-confinement). Strictly confined snaps run in complete isolation, so some of the Gitea functionals may not work with the confinement*

```sh
snap install gitea
```

### SUSE and openSUSE

OpenSUSE build service provides packages for [openSUSE and SLE](https://software.opensuse.org/download/package?package=gitea&project=devel%3Atools%3Ascm)
in the Development Software Configuration Management Repository

### Windows

There is a [Gitea](https://chocolatey.org/packages/gitea) package for Windows by [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).

```sh
choco install gitea
```

Or follow the [deployment from binary](installation/from-binary.md) guide.

### FreeBSD

A FreeBSD port `www/gitea` is available. To install the pre-built binary package:

```
pkg install gitea
```

For the most up to date version, or to build the port with custom options,
[install it from the port](https://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/ports-using.html):

```
su -
cd /usr/ports/www/gitea
make install clean
```

The port uses the standard FreeBSD file system layout: config files are in `/usr/local/etc/gitea`,
bundled templates, options, plugins and themes are in `/usr/local/share/gitea`, and a start script
is in `/usr/local/etc/rc.d/gitea`.

To enable Gitea to run as a service, run `sysrc gitea_enable=YES` and start it with `service gitea start`.

### Others

Various other third-party packages of Gitea exist.
To see a curated list, head over to [awesome-gitea](https://gitea.com/gitea/awesome-gitea/src/branch/master/README.md#user-content-packages).

Do you know of an existing package that isn't on the list? Send in a PR to get it added!
