docs/content/doc/help/support.en-us.md, before:

---
date: "2018-05-21T15:00:00+00:00"
title: "Support Options"
slug: "support"
weight: 20
toc: false
draft: false
aliases:
  - /en-us/seek-help
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "help"
    name: "Support Options"
    weight: 20
    identifier: "support"
---

# Support Options

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/Gitea)
- [Discourse Forum](https://discourse.gitea.io/)

**NOTE:** When asking for support, it may be a good idea to have the following available so that the person helping has all the info they need:

1. Your `app.ini` (with any sensitive data scrubbed as necessary).
2. The Gitea logs, and any other appropriate log files for the situation.
    - When using systemd, use `journalctl --lines 1000 --unit gitea` to collect logs.
    - When using docker, use `docker logs --tail 1000 <gitea-container>` to collect logs.
    - By default, the logs are outputted to console. If you need to collect logs from files,
      you could copy the following config into your `app.ini` (remove all other `[log]` sections),
      then you can find the `*.log` files in Gitea's log directory (default: `%(GITEA_WORK_DIR)/log`).

    ```ini
    ; To show all SQL logs, you can also set LOG_SQL=true in the [database] section
    [log]
    LEVEL=debug
    MODE=console,file
    ROUTER=console,file
    XORM=console,file
    ENABLE_XORM_LOG=true
    FILE_NAME=gitea.log
    [log.file.router]
    FILE_NAME=router.log
    [log.file.xorm]
    FILE_NAME=xorm.log
    ```

3. Any error messages you are seeing.
4. When possible, try to replicate the issue on [try.gitea.io](https://try.gitea.io) and include steps so that others can reproduce the issue.
    - This will greatly improve the chance that the root of the issue can be quickly discovered and resolved.
5. If you meet slow/hanging/deadlock problems, please report the stack trace when the problem occurs:
    1. Enable pprof in `app.ini` and restart Gitea

        ```ini
        [server]
        ENABLE_PPROF = true
        ```

    2. Trigger the bug, when Gitea gets stuck, use curl or browser to visit: `http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/goroutine?debug=1` (IP must be `127.0.0.1` and port must be `6060`).
    3. If you are using Docker, please use `docker exec -it <container-name> curl "http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/goroutine?debug=1"`.
    4. Report the output (the stack trace doesn't contain sensitive data)

## Bugs

If you found a bug, please create an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea/issues).

## Chinese Support

Support for the Chinese language is provided at [Our discourse](https://discourse.gitea.io/c/5-category/5) or QQ Group 328432459.

Commit message:

Improve some documents: release version, logging, NFS lock (#25202)
Close #23654
Close #24684

@techknowlogick I still think we need to rename
https://dl.gitea.com/gitea/1.20/ to
https://dl.gitea.com/gitea/1.20-nightly/

`/gitea/1.20/` is quite confusing, it needs these words to explain why.
If we call it `1.20-nightly`, the FAQ can be simplified a lot.

docs/content/doc/help/support.en-us.md, after:

---
date: "2018-05-21T15:00:00+00:00"
title: "Support Options"
slug: "support"
weight: 20
toc: false
draft: false
aliases:
  - /en-us/seek-help
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "help"
    name: "Support Options"
    weight: 20
    identifier: "support"
---

# Support Options

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/Gitea)
- [Discourse Forum](https://discourse.gitea.io/)

**NOTE:** When asking for support, it may be a good idea to have the following available so that the person helping has all the info they need:

1. Your `app.ini` (with any sensitive data scrubbed as necessary).
2. The Gitea logs, and any other appropriate log files for the situation.
    - When using systemd, use `journalctl --lines 1000 --unit gitea` to collect logs.
    - When using docker, use `docker logs --tail 1000 <gitea-container>` to collect logs.
    - By default, the logs are outputted to console. If you need to collect logs from files,
      you could copy the following config into your `app.ini` (remove all other `[log]` sections),
      then you can find the `*.log` files in Gitea's log directory (default: `%(GITEA_WORK_DIR)/log`).

    ```ini
    ; To show all SQL logs, you can also set LOG_SQL=true in the [database] section
    [log]
    LEVEL=debug
    MODE=console,file
    ```

3. Any error messages you are seeing.
4. When possible, try to replicate the issue on [try.gitea.io](https://try.gitea.io) and include steps so that others can reproduce the issue.
    - This will greatly improve the chance that the root of the issue can be quickly discovered and resolved.
5. If you encounter slow/hanging/deadlock problems, please report the stack trace when the problem occurs.
   Go to the "Site Admin" -> "Monitoring" -> "Stacktrace" -> "Download diagnosis report".

## Bugs

If you found a bug, please create an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea/issues).

## Chinese Support

Support for the Chinese language is provided at [Our discourse](https://discourse.gitea.io/c/5-category/5) or QQ Group 328432459.
